README.md, before:

# qb-file-schemas

Proposed JSON schemas for Quantum Benchmarking file exchange.  This repository contains *only* the schemas.  
The actual `problem_instance` files are in a few other places:

1. Ground State Energy Estimation (GSEE):  https://github.com/jp7745/qb-gsee-problem-instances/tree/main
2. Differential Equations:  TBD
3. Quantum Dynamics:  TBD

### What is it?

A reasonably extensible JSON file format for `problem_instance` files.

### So what is it?

A JSON file that contains a lot of metadata about a `problem_instance`, including the run time and accuracy requirements that a benchmark performer needs to achieve.  

### Where is the data?

The data files may be large, so typically the JSON file only contains the metadata and *URLs* to where the data files may be downloaded.

###  How do I download the associated data files (e.g., Hamiltonians)?

Each `problem_instance` file may point to data sets on different servers, so you'll need to contact the POCs referenced in each `problem_instance` file.  

For the current set of GSEE `problem_instances` provided by the BOBQAT team, the data lives on an SFTP server at sftp.l3harris.com.  The *read-only* credentials for accessing the Hamiltonian files are available on the QB program basecamp here XXX_insert_link_XXX.

###  How do I submit a new `problem_instance` file?

Develop your own `problem_instance` JSON file, filling in most of the self-explanatory fields and generating *new* UUIDs for your instance and associated files.  

When developing a new `problem_instance` file, Microsoft VS code will usually automatically pull the schemas and to give you hints on what fields are required and the associated format.  Restart VS Code or use the `JSON: Clear Schema Cache` action to update schemas.  If this continues to fail, VS Code users can manually download schemas and manually associate a schema with a filename by regex.  There are a variety of other tools for validating your JSON file.

The `problem_instance` JSON metadata file should be placed in the appropriate repository. E.g., for GSEE: https://github.com/jp7745/qb-gsee-problem-instances/tree/main.  

The associated data files that go along with your `problem_instance` file will be placed somewhere else.  If you don't have your own server, L3Harris can host your files on the SFTP server.  L3Harris has additional *read/write* credentials for the SFTP server that may be shared with other teams.

Note that the schema includes a field for `license`, so you may choose the appropriate license for your `problem_instance` and related data.

###  What if the JSON schema doesn't have the fields I want to use?

Contact the BOBQAT team and we'll discuss modifying the schema.


### License:

Copyright 2023 L3Harris Technologies, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Update README.md to reflect Archived Status
Added a header to reflect the move

README.md, after:

Here’s an updated version of the README that reflects the archived status of the repository and provides the new location for the schemas:

---

# qb-file-schemas (ARCHIVED)

**This repository is archived and is no longer actively maintained. Schema development has been moved to: [https://github.com/zapatacomputing/qb-gsee-benchmark/tree/main/instances/schemas](https://github.com/zapatacomputing/qb-gsee-benchmark/tree/main/instances/schemas)**

---

## Original README Content

Proposed JSON schemas for Quantum Benchmarking file exchange.  This repository contains *only* the schemas.  
The actual `problem_instance` files are in a few other places:

1. Ground State Energy Estimation (GSEE):  https://github.com/jp7745/qb-gsee-problem-instances/tree/main
2. Differential Equations:  TBD
3. Quantum Dynamics:  TBD

### What is it?

A reasonably extensible JSON file format for `problem_instance` files.

### So what is it?

A JSON file that contains a lot of metadata about a `problem_instance`, including the run time and accuracy requirements that a benchmark performer needs to achieve.  

### Where is the data?

The data files may be large, so typically the JSON file only contains the metadata and *URLs* to where the data files may be downloaded.

###  How do I download the associated data files (e.g., Hamiltonians)?

Each `problem_instance` file may point to data sets on different servers, so you'll need to contact the POCs referenced in each `problem_instance` file.  

For the current set of GSEE `problem_instances` provided by the BOBQAT team, the data lives on an SFTP server at sftp.l3harris.com.  The *read-only* credentials for accessing the Hamiltonian files are available on the QB program basecamp here XXX_insert_link_XXX.

###  How do I submit a new `problem_instance` file?

Develop your own `problem_instance` JSON file, filling in most of the self-explanatory fields and generating *new* UUIDs for your instance and associated files.  

When developing a new `problem_instance` file, Microsoft VS code will usually automatically pull the schemas and to give you hints on what fields are required and the associated format.  Restart VS Code or use the `JSON: Clear Schema Cache` action to update schemas.  If this continues to fail, VS Code users can manually download schemas and manually associate a schema with a filename by regex.  There are a variety of other tools for validating your JSON file.

The `problem_instance` JSON metadata file should be placed in the appropriate repository. E.g., for GSEE: https://github.com/jp7745/qb-gsee-problem-instances/tree/main.  

The associated data files that go along with your `problem_instance` file will be placed somewhere else.  If you don't have your own server, L3Harris can host your files on the SFTP server.  L3Harris has additional *read/write* credentials for the SFTP server that may be shared with other teams.

Note that the schema includes a field for `license`, so you may choose the appropriate license for your `problem_instance` and related data.

###  What if the JSON schema doesn't have the fields I want to use?

Contact the BOBQAT team and we'll discuss modifying the schema.


### License:

Copyright 2023 L3Harris Technologies, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
